# Lecture 17 - DNS + Link Layer

## Overview

In today's lecture, we will wrap up DNS and then transition into discussing the link layer (Layer 2).  Whereas we have focused chiefly on enabling applications, transport, and end-to-end networking, we will now look at how we transit across each individual link in the network and the various technologies that enable such connectivity.  We will also be doing a deep dive into Wireshark to set the stage for Homework 3 and diving into the information from the various Layer 2, Layer 3, and Layer 4 headers.

In today's lecture, we will wrap up a few left over items from the control plane (BGP policies), ICMP, SDN controllers, and then we will pivot to focus on DNS.  We will work through DNS with the content possibly spanning today's lecture as well as Wednesday's lecture.  The mid-term exams will be returned in the last 10 minutes of class with a brief discussion of commonly missed items.

## Readings - Lecture 15

* Chapter 6 - Kurose / Ross - Link Layer

## Notes - Reminder

* For the last half of the semester, lectures will be recorded and available upon request (request via e-mail or Slack).

## Handouts

* This Overview
* [Homework 3](../hw3/hw3.md)


## Key Points - In-Class - Lecture 17

* DNS
   * What is caching and why does it matter for DNS?
   * Compare / contrast: RR, A, AAAA, MX, TLD, TTL
* Link Layer
   * What is the link layer?
   * How does a switch differ from a router?
   * What is multiple access?
   * What is channel portioning? FDMA? CDMA?
   * What is a random access protocol? Slotted ALOHA? CSMA?

## Looking Ahead

* Sunday - 11/2 - Exam Question Resubmission (Extra Credit)
* Sunday - 11/2 - Homework 3 (available this evening)