# Key Points - Second Half

See Lecture 15 for the first half

## Lecture 16

* Define the following w/respect to BGP: Convergence, Thrashing
* Compare / contrast: ICMP, ping, trace route, SNMP
* How does the SDN controller work?
* What is anycast? How does it relate to CDNs and BGP?
* What are the different types of DNS records?
* How does DNS work (generally)?

## Lecture 17

* DNS
   * What is caching and why does it matter for DNS?
   * Compare / contrast: RR, A, AAAA, MX, TLD, TTL

## Lecture 18

* Link Layer
   * What is the link layer?
   * How does a switch differ from a router?
   * What is multiple access?
   * What is channel portioning? FDMA? CDMA?
   * What is a random access protocol? Slotted ALOHA? CSMA?
* Link Layer (Part 2)
   * What is a MAC address? How does it differ from an IP address?
   * What is ARP?
   * What is self-learning?

## Lecture 19

* How does a bridge differ from a switch?
* Read and parse a network diagram.
* What is STP? When does it matter?
* What is a VLAN? Tag?

## Lecture 20

* What is Ethernet? Twisted pair? RJ45? PoE?
* How does optical networking operate? What is SFP? Single mode? Multi-mode?
* What is STP? When does it matter?
* What is a VLAN?
* What is MPLS? LSP? Traffic Engineering?
* How is a datacenter / cloud network typically constructed?
* What is HA? What is fault tolerance? Fault, error, failure?

## Lecture 21

* Generally, how are distance, speed, and frequency related with respect to wireless networks?
* What are the following: Bandwidth, Phase, Capacity, SNR, RSSI?

## Lecture 22

* What is FDM? OFDM? OFDMA?
* What is 802.11?
* Compare / contrast: hidden terminal, path loss, RTS, CTS, TXOP.
* What is a PHY layer ACK and what is its purpose?
* How is cellular different than WiFi?

## Lecture 23

* Compare / contrast: RAN, 4G, 5G, eNodeB, UE, EPC
* How does cellular solve roaming?
* What is triangular routing?
* What is encapsulation as it relates to tunneling?
* Compare / contrast: confidentiality, integrity, availability.
* What does authentication mean?

## Lecture 24

* Compare / contrast: asymmetric vs. symmetric cryptography
* What makes a hash function "strong"?
* What are digital certificates?
* Compare / contrast: PKI, CA, CRL, MAC

## Lecture 25

* Compare / contrast: VPN, IPsec, AH, ESP
* What is Diffie Hellman?
* Why is DPI hard?

## Lecture 26

* What are key aspects of network security (firewall, etc.)?
* What is 802.1x?
* What is an ACL?

## Lecture 27

* Compare / contrast: JPEG, MPEG, DCT
* What is multicast?
* What is VoIP? VoLTE?
* Compare / contrast: buffering, FEC, CDNs
* What is ToS? QoS? QoE?
* What is traffic shaping? Leaky bucket? Token bucket?
* What is CBR? VBR?
* What are the major issues about net neutrality?