# Lecture 24 - Security

## Overview

We finished up wireless for the most part last Wednesday and began into the security portion of the course.  On Wednesday, we focused on security from a general perspective, namely what are the major fundamentals of security (CIA), what are the two key types of encryption, and how are those types used? In today's lecture, we will look more in depth at how the various security mechanisms are used for the purposes of security, specifically confidentiality and integrity.  We will look more broadly at PKI and digital certificates and then start to get into various network security appliances and notable network security protocols (TLS, IPsec, 802.1x).

## Readings - Lecture 24

* Chapter 8 - Security

## Handouts

* This Overview
* Printout of the Edge Settings and practice Final Exam network layout

## Notes

Unfortunately, the Zoom box did not have an option to mail the lecture recording.  If you need more information about Coding Project 2 - Part 2 over break, please feel free to ping me for any questions over Slack.

Today's lecture will be recorded and shared on Canvas for those that might be traveling (Zoom box willing).

## Key Points - In-Class - Lecture 24

* Compare / contrast: asymmetric vs. symmetric cryptography
* What makes a hash function "strong"?
* What are digital certificates?
* Compare / contrast: PKI, CA, CRL, MAC
* Compare / contrast: VPN, IPsec, AH, ESP
* What is 802.1x?
* What is Diffie Hellman?
* Why is DPI hard?

## Looking Ahead

* Wednesday - 11/26 - No Class - Thanksgiving Break
* Sunday - 12/7 - Coding Project 2 - Part 2 Due
* Tuesday - 12/16 - Final Exam - 7:30 - 9:30 PM
  * Networks / questions for oral exam discussion will be released on Monday, December 8th
  * Scheduling for oral exam times will open on Wednesday, 12/3