# Mid-Term Review - Lecture 15 - 10-13-25

The mid-term exam for CSE 30264 will be held on Wednesday, October 15th in class.

## Aggregated Key Points

All lecture materials can be found on Canvas.  The materials are linked on the Course Schedule.

### Lecture 1

* What is the Internet?
* Define: protocol, packet, forwarding
* Define: host, network device, network link
* Define: transmission rate, buffer, queue

### Lecture 2

* Compare circuit switching versus packet switching.
* What are the key types of delay?
* What is telephony? How does it relate to the Internet?
* Which agency drove the original Internet?
* What is best effort?
* What are the layers in the Internet? Which ones matter?
* What is encapsulation / decapsulation?
* Define: malware, virus, worm, DoS, DDoS


### Lecture 3

* What is the application layer?
* What does end-to-end argument mean in the context of the application layer?
* Compare and contrast: client / server, peer-to-peer
* What is the transport layer and how does it relate to the application layer?
* What is HTTP? Sketch the basics of the request and the response.

### Lecture 4

* What is the general syntax for HTTP requests? What are various headers?
* What are cookies? What are the different types of cookies?
* What is web caching? What does it mean to proxy?
* Compare / contrast: FTP, SMTP, HTTP, BitTorrent

### Lecture 5

* Explain DASH
* Explain what a CDN is.
* What are the different versions of HTTP and why does it matter?
* What is the purpose of the transport layer?
* What does multiplexing / demultiplexing mean?
* What is a port? Source port? Destination port?
* What is a flow tuple?

### Lecture 6

* Compare / contrast: Stop and wait, Go Back N, Selective Repeat
* What does TCP stand for?
* What are the key properties of TCP?
* What is a segment? MSS? Why does it matter?
* What is the 3-way handshake for TCP? Why is it 3-way?

### Lecture 7

* What are the key fields for TCP?
* Define / compare: RTT, RTO, Smoothed RTT.
* What is TCP Fast Retransmit?
* What is flow control and why does it matter?
* What is CWND, BDP?
* What is the dumbbell topology?
* What does it mean to be TCP friendly? What is fairness? Jain’s fairness index?
* Compare / contrast: slow start, congestion avoidance, AIMD, SS_thresh
* What is buffer bloat? Why does it matter?

### Lecture 8

* Define / describe: Slow Start, Congestion Avoidance, AIMD, Fast Recovery
* Why does wireless create issues with TCP?
* What is buffer bloat? Why does it matter?
* What is TCP New Reno? CUBIC? BBR?
* How do you initialize a socket?
* How does a client connect to a server?
* How does a server accept new connections from client?
* How do you send / receive data?
* How do you wrap up a connection?

### Lecture 9

* What is UDP?
* What is QUIC?

### Lecture 10

* When should you use: TCP, UDP, QUIC?
* What is the data plane versus the control plane?
* What is the network layer?
* Compare / contrast: IPv4 vs. IPv6
* What is the difference between forwarding versus routing?

### Lecture 11

* Compare / contrast: FIFO, priority queueing, WFQ
* What is a FIB?
* What is fragmentation / why does it occur?

### Lecture 12

* UDP
   * How do you program with sockets for UDP?
* Data Plane
   * What is a subnet?
   * What is NAT? Why does it make our life hard?
   * What is DHCP? What is the v6 equivalent?


### Lecture 13

* Data Plane
   * What is SDN? What makes it “different”?
* Control Plane
   * What is routing? What purpose does it serve?
   * Compare / contrast: link state, distance vector.
   * Compare / contrast: AS, OSPF, BGP.

### Lecture 14

* Compare / contrast: link state, distance vector.
* Compare / contrast: AS, OSPF, BGP.
* Define the following: ingress, egress, traffic engineering
* Define the following w/respect to BGP: speaker, peer, session, eBGP, iBGP, NLRI, thrashing

There will not be questions on ICMP on the mid-term exam.

### Coding Project 1 - Part 1

* How do you establish a TCP socket? How do you read? write? close?
* What is the usual order of events for using TCP? As a client? As a server?

### Coding Project 2 - Part 2

* How do you establish a UDP socket? How do you read? write? close? How is it different than TCP?
* What is the usual order of events for using UDP? As a client? As a server?