# Lecture 19 - Link Layer (Continued)

## Overview

With the last lecture, we have now firmly pivoted into the Link Layer (Layer 2).  We continued our discussion with regards to how a link (or channel) is split up examining different sorts of access mechanisms (FDMA, CDMA).  We discussed how random access to a channel would work (ALOHA, CSMA) and the notion of an exponential backoff (ex. pick up more dice each round on a collision / usage).  We then began on the second part of the Link Layer content pivoting into MAC addresses and ARP.

In today's lecture, we will first begin with a discussion of the second coding project and then we will continue on the link layer content, looking at how a switch self-learns where different hardware (MAC) addresses can be found.  We will continue that discussion looking at various Layer 2 protocols including STP, VLAN, and various others as time allows.

## Readings - Lecture 19

* Chapter 6 - Link Layer
* Chapter 7 - Mobile and Wireless

## Notes

* As the lecture will include discussions of Coding Project 2 - Part 1, the lecture will be recorded and shared via Canvas.

## Handouts

* This Overview
* [Coding Project 2 - Part 1](../cp2/part1.md)

## Key Points - In-Class - Lecture 19

* How does a bridge differ from a switch?
* Read and parse a network diagram.
* What is self-learning?
* What is STP? When does it matter?
* What is a VLAN? Tag?
* What is MPLS? LSP?
* How is a datacenter / cloud network typically constructed?
* What is HA? What is fault tolerance? Fault, error, failure

## Looking Ahead

* Monday - 11/3 - Coding Project 2 Available
* Tuesday - 12/16 - Final Exam - 7:30 - 9:30 PM
