# Lecture 3 - Handout - Application Layer (Part 1)

Computer Networks - Spring 2025

## Overview

We will wrap up a bit from Lecture 2 on attacks and then start to look at the Application layer which is the focus of Chapter 2 in the Kurose / Ross book.  We will start with looking at common overarching architectures, contrasting the client / server versus a peer-to-peer oriented approach.  From there, we will start looking at HTTP, arguably the most dominant and important protocol at the Application layer.

## Readings - Lecture 3

Browse Chapter 2 in the book. If you do not have the Kurose / Ross book yet, you can access the free Peterson / Davies book Links to an external site. and also read through Chapter 9 in that book.

As you are reading Chapter 2, think about the following questions:

* What do we mean by Application Layer?
* What is a client? How does it differ from a server?
* What is a socket? What is an API? Is a socket an API?
* What is HTTP? What does it look like?

## Handouts

* This Overview

## Key Points - In-Class - Lecture 3

* What is the application layer?
* What does end-to-end argument mean in the context of the application layer?
* Compare and contrast: client / server, peer-to-peer
* What is the transport layer and how does it relate to the application layer?
* What is HTTP? Sketch the basics of the request and the response.

## Looking Ahead

* Finish Reading Chapter 2 - Application Layer (Kurose / Ross)
   * If you are using the Peterson / Davies book, read Chapter 9 Links to an external site.
* Wednesday - Lecture 4 - Application Layer - Part 2
* Next Monday Wednesday - Lecture 5 - Overview of the Transport Layer

## Upcoming Due Dates

| **Assigned** | **Assignment** | **Due Date** |
|---|---|---|
| Last Week | Background Course Survey | Sunday, 9/7 |
| 9/1, 5 PM | Homework 1 - Short Answer, Wireshark, GitHub | Sunday, 9/7 |
